{"id" : "1",
"artist" : "Cam'ron",
"description" : "Cam'ron and Rap Genius founder MetaWorldPeace (aka Ilan Zechory)

Cameron “Cam'ron” Giles is perhaps the quintessential Rap Genius artist.  Funny (like us), boastful (ditto), clever (yup), and rich (well..)

Killa Cam started out alongside Big L, Ma$e, his cousin Bloodshed (R.I.P.) and others in the short-lived group Children of the Corn.  He had several successful solo albums, but it is his 2004 record Purple Haze that stands as the quintessence of all things Cam'ronian.

Since then, Cam has kept his computers ‘puting on a series of albums and mixtapes by himself, with Dipset, and with his standout new protege Vado.  We here at RG salute Mr. Giles, without whom this site might not exist.  May your diamonds keep on doing the Macarena"},


{"id" : "2",
"artist" : "Jay Z",
"description" : "Shawn “JAY Z” Carter is one of the most successful rappers ever to pick up a microphone.  He has sold over 50 million records, received ten Grammys, and has more number one albums than any solo artist ever.

All of this would be meaningless, though, if it weren’t for his artistry.  “Jay-Hova”’s rhymes, flow, trend-setting styles, ear for beats, and ability to craft songs ranging from heartbreakers to party anthems ensures that all of the accolades are not misplaced.

Jay has played a large role in the success of many other popular artists. Kanye West first gained wide recognition for his production work on The Blueprint, and Jay has been Kanye’s mentor and friend throughout their careers. Jay and his label Roc Nation have also signed artists like J. Cole, Rihanna, Jay Electronica, Calvin Harris, and DJ Mustard.

For further study, see our in-depth analysis of Jay’s classic 1996 debut album, Reasonable Doubt.

We’ve also broken down the “Empire State of Mind” video in his honor.

Additionally, you can check out his spotlight in the Verse to Verse series, in which we explain some of the biblical references in his discography.

And of course, everybody loves lists: Peep our ranking of the 25 greatest Jay-Z verses of all time."},


{"id" : "3",
"artist" : "Fabolous",
"description" : "John David Jackson (born November 18, 1977), better known by his stage name Fabolous, is an American rapper. His first music appearance was with his 2001 release Ghetto Fabolous. He is also known for his hit singles “Can’t Deny It”, “Young'n (Holla Back)”, “Breathe”, “Make Me Better”, “My Time” and “Throw It in the Bag”.

Here he talks about some of his recurrent themes.
http://embed.vidyard.com/share/wSuanOnJgrNE_nscqX-P8g
On his growth as an artist and a man
http://embed.vidyard.com/share/VzAfX9sYUGKRippJwRJ5jA"},


{"id" : "4",
"artist" : "Lil Wayne",
"description" : "Dwayne Michael Carter, Jr., better known by his stage name Lil Wayne, grew up in the Hollygrove neighborhood of New Orleans, Louisiana.

At the age of nine, Lil Wayne joined Cash Money Records as the youngest member of the label, and half of the duo, The B.G.‘z, with B.G.. In 1997, Lil Wayne joined the group Hot Boys, which also included rappers Juvenile, B.G., and Young Turk. Lil Wayne gained most of his success with the group’s major selling album Guerrilla Warfare, released in 1999. He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book Of World Records for the record of Most US Hot 100 Hits By A Rap Artist with 64 hits between 1999 and 2010.

Wayne is famous for his command of slow, witty lines and metaphorical jokes. His discography includes a slew of successful mixtapes, including Dedication 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5; No Ceilings; and Da Drought 3. His albums consistently garner acclaim, with Tha Carter series all platinum hits. Tha Carter series has been a work of Wayne’s for 13 years and continues to grow with the fifth installment, Tha Carter V set to be released in 2016. Wayne keeps a constant recording schedule, with studio booths in his tour bus, home, and following him everywhere."},


{"id" : "5",
"artist" : "Clipse",
"description" : "Real-life brothers Gene “Malice” Thornton and Terrance “Pusha T” Thornton are the critically acclaimed duo Clipse (originally known as Full Eclipse)

Known for their clever, dense raps (mostly about cocaine), the duo’s 2006 album Hell Hath No Fury was the 6th album in the history of hip-hop magazine XXL to receive a perfect “XXL” rating"},


